---
layout: post
title:      "My CLI Project Overview"
date:       2020-08-11 23:54:57 +0000
permalink:  my_cli_project_overview
---


 My CLI project was very difficult for me I came in it not knowing a lot of the information because I either forgot it or just didn't pay enough attention to the information. This made it very hard for me to understand where I was going to begin and where I was going to take my idea. My first idea was to do something with games I wanted to take games being released from certain years but I realized how big this project would be and how much I already don't know to have the knowledge. I started thinking smaller which went down to top 10 video games but I also started thinking that giving them a top 10 doesn't give the user really any choice other then top 10. So I started to think about the video games I play (obviously im a huge advocate for video games) and I started to think of individual things in these video games like pieces of armor that rated from common to rare and different states. I used this idea as I can have people show the top 10 best or worst while also allowing them to choose their own if they knew the name of something in the game. I did some research on how I would scrape the websites and realized that all of the games had you sign something or do something of that nature before you scraped. This led me to my finale decision which was the popular game Pokemon I thought why not be able to have options of top 10 best or worst Pokemon but also being able to look up a pokemon if you knew what that Pokemon's name was. 
 
I started to do some coding which took a while to get to that point because I had very many issues with my terminal and other things that made my deadline a lot shorter than others and that is completely my fault but didn't help my situation of already being ignorant of the information. I thankfully got it all fixed I started coding, now remember I had no clue what I was doing with the code so 70% of my time was doing research on how to put something in and get results. It took me a two days of maybe four hours of work just to be able test my code and see it in my terminal. Finally being able to test the code made me more intrigued to see what I was capable to see it posting right in front of me. My deadline was so close that everytime I had a error or a mistake in my code I just couldn't figure out after research I wanted to give up and I kept saying to myself "I am just not going to be able to complete my project". But me being a shy person I finally just decided to ask questions and get help from other people rather than trying to research it myself which turned out to help me out and made me learn more than I could ever imagine.

After I completed the code and learned pretty much everything that is in my code, I look back at it and its very simple and makes sense. This very code that I see as "simple" was very scray at the beginning and made me want to give up. The code was basically using a scraper tool to scrape a Pokemon website that had a list of Pokemonand stats.  I used the code and gave it methods so that it would display only the things I wanted it to which was the name, number, stats, and type. Which is exactly what it did. I had specific methods to pull those and then I had whatever was inputed by the user to pull from those specific methods its kind of hard to explain but it worked very well. Because of the time I had (which was a little late) I wasn't able to apply and do everything I wanted and make it look as beautiful as I wanted but its functional and makes me very happy how it turned out. This project was the most I've ever learned about code and my code might not be the best but I actually understood what was happening with the code and why I would get what I got which made me feel really good I actually understood.

The end of this is just don't give up I had so many times where I literally would shut off everything and just sit there and say I can't do this I have no clue what this code is and what im doing with it. I pushed myself to learn the code implement it and then I would hit a road bump and go back to the same head space. Thats exactly what they are though they are road bumps something that you are able to get over and improve at it. In this I also learned no matter what if you finish the project or what you are doing at the time don't sit beating yourself up over not completing it bring yourself up saying " I have learned so much, come so far, and have finally understood what is happening". I was in a very bad mind set with this project because it simply was something I didn't understand and that was do to me lacking in actually learning the code but this project made me realize how exciting learning was and how good it felt to get that far. From this point on this project helped me realize the importance of actually learning the information im given and being able to go farthe~r and beyond with that information which is all I can ask for.~
