---
layout: post
title:      "My Sinatra App Project"
date:       2021-01-14 03:41:25 +0000
permalink:  my_sinatra_app_project
---


This was probably the hardest thing ive had to do out of everything so far. I have had a really hard time staying motivated so I was and still am really far behind. It took a lot for me to get this project done and it I used a lot of help as well, the help I used was to also teach myself. After I was done coding one thing before I moved on to the next I always asked myself "Do I understand what is going on?" normally I would say yes or educate myself with the code and then move on. Like I said at the beginning I still feel like im a little behind the only reason I say this is because the basic terminology of the coding still gets lost in my head. If someone were to ask what was a class variable or a instance variable I'd still have trouble answering it. I have still made a project that I am happy with and hopefully can expand on in the future. My project was on a Video Game Forum basically someone can come complain about a video game and post there complaint Im hoping in the future to add on to it by adding reply's and adding game categories.

The coding was fairly simple corneal helped with a lot of the coding and getting it set up at the beginning I even used it to create some models/migrations. I was able to understand what I wanted to be projected it was just a challenge of getting that projected which is why I needed a little help. Once I was all set up I was able to start coding I am still a little confused on how it all works but I do understand a lot of the basics like how User will has_many of something and that something will belong_to the User. That being said the coding I did was adding the Migrations to give my user and complaints data and parameters I also made the user have complaints and complaints belong to a user. I added Login, Signup, and Logout methods while either sending them to a ERB file I made to display the webpage or redirected them if I wanted. I also was able to add Flash Messages giving the user an error message if they filled out something incorrect or didn't left something empty. I am still adding on to my coding trying to make it look better but right now it is functioning.

I have my "finished" code and it still is confusing at some points or I don't know what something is called but I understand how it works and what its job is. Looking at my code if someon where to ask my to make a migration I could do that or if someone said what else does a migration also need I would be able to tell them a model file. I think I have come pretty far for being so far behind in these coding lessons. The code is still very new to me and I am still getting nervous just thinking about "What if someone asked me to do this" I would struggle with it. No matter what though I am happy with my project and the learning curve I have overcome so far in these lessons.

The end of my project and blog is just keep pushing through. My motivation has been really rough with this project and is why I had to learn a lot of the stuff while doing the project and is also why I have to code it so fast to get it done on time. No matter what happens at this point (for me and whoever else is reading this.) just being happy with what you've learned, tried, and accomplished. because even if you don't finish something but still tried is amazing. I hope that I get to continue doing coding because seeing the end of this project made me say (out loud to myself) "this is so cool, it is looking so good!" and I've noticed I need to use that as my motivation. Instead of saying "I can do it later" I need to say "Do it now because itll make it easier down the line and youll really enjoy what you're doing." I think I lose that enjoyment of what im doing while learning something. Anyways im kind of just talking now but the project was really hard for me I hope I did a good job in the end and like I said I hope I get to continue with what im doing.



